Day 8


Docker



why there is need of docker

problem before docker           1. An application works perfectly fine in developer laptop but not same in case of testing and production team, this is due to difference in computing environment.

microservices- if we consider large application if we broke down to smaller pieces. then smaller pieces will be microservices. microservices are small process that communicate with each other toward common goal.

if we consider online shopping application then order server, product catalog, cat server, account server . these all are microservices.




major advantage of microservices. 

1. there are apllication which are easier to build and maintain when they are broken down into smaller pieces.
2. if one of microservies goes down it will not affect large application.
3. if we want to add new technology to any module we can easily do it, because the dependency is very low as compared to whole application.




developing application require starting of several microservices on 1 host machine.
if we run 7 microservices then we have to start 7 virtual machine on 1 host machine. it will largley allocate RAM nad disk space.


How docker solve the problem


1. we can run several microservices on single vm in 1 host machine. if we run 5 microservices then we have to deploy 5 docker container on single virtual machine.

so docker container are replaced by virtual machine.

docker container used throughtout software development life cycle to provide consistent computing environment. docker does not uses guest os. it use host os. 

docker is tool designed to easily create, run and deploy application by using container.


docker file build the docker image that contain all project code.
we can run that image to build as many container we want.
then we can upload the image to docker hub , from docker hub anyone can pull the image and build container.




docker components

1. docker registry- it store components for docker image.
2. docker image -  read only templete used to create container.
3. docker container - contain everything needed to run application. 


below are command run on ubuntu to 

install docker on ubuntu 
pull ubuntu image from dockerhub
and build container from ubuntu image



apt-get update

curl -fsSl https://get.docker.com/ | sh                                                   { install docker}
docker --version
service docker start                                                                 { want to know docker version}
sudo docker run ubuntu                                                          {pull ubuntu image from dockerhub}  
sudo docker run-it ubuntu                                                            { run ubuntu container}


sudo docker ps      { want to know the iamge and container build}


command to install docker-     curl -fsSl https://get.docker.com/ | sh


















