day 16 


RDS, AURORA AND ELASTICACHE

RDS-Relational databse service.
RDS is used to create database in cloud which is managed by AWS. It uses SQL as query language.
types of database 
1. postgre
2. mysql
3. mariadb
4. oracle
5. microsoft
6. aurora

RDS- Auto scaling service

helps to increase size of RDS database dynamically.
it will modify the size of rda database when 
a.  free storage is less than 10% of alloted storage.
b. low-storage for atleast 5 minutes.
c. 6 hrs have passed and no modificatio has been done.
useful for application with unpredicatble workloads.
support all database engines

RDS Read replica for read scalibility

can create upto 15 read replica within AZ, cross AZ cross region.
replication should be asychronous so that read can eventually consistent
replica can be promoted to their own database. 
application must update the connection string to leverage read replica.

used cases-
- if you production databse that is running on normal load.
- you want to run a reporting application to run some analytics
- you can create read replica to run the new workload there.
- the production application is unaffected.
- red replica are useful for select'(=read) only kind of statements not ( INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE)

RDS Read replica - network cost
- In AWS there is network cost when data goes from one AZ TO another
- for RDS there is no cost for read replica within same region. 

RDA Multi AZ ( Disaster recovery)
- SYNC replication
- increase availability
- failover in case of loss of AZ, loss of network , instance, or storage failure.
-not used for scaling
the read replicas be setup as multiaz for disaster recovery.

RDS from single AZ to multi AZ
zero downtime operation( no need to stop the RDS)

A snapshot is taken.
A new DB is created from snapshot in new AZ.
Synchronization is established between the two databse.

Aurora

Postgre and mysql are both supported by aurora, your driver will work only if aurora was postgre and mysql.
aurora is aws cloud optimized that mean it gives 5x performance over mysql on RDS and 3x performance as postgre.
failover is instantaneous.
aurora storage grows automatically on increment of 10 gb upto 128 tb.
aurora can have upto 15 read replica and replication process is much faster than rds
aurora cost more 20% and but it is more efficient.

Aurora High availability and read scalability

6 copies of your data across 3 AZ

self healing with peer to peer replication
one aurora instance takes writes(master)
automatic failover for master in less than 30 sec.
master + 15 read replica serve the reads.
support for cross region replication.

Aurora database cluster

shared storage volume( auto expanding on increment of 10gb upto 128 tb.)
writers end point(pointing toward master) - 
readers end point- ( connection load balancing) -connection to all read replica

Features of aurora

1. automatic failover
2. backup and recovery 
3. isolation and security 
4. industry compliance
5. push button scaling
6. automatic patching with zero downtime
7. advance monitoring
8. routine maintenace
9. backtrack:restore data at any point of time without using backups.
















